# Clean-Discord
clean-discord is a fast, efficient, and robust script for cleaning large quantities of messages from discord data generated by [DiscordChatExporter](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/DiscordChatExporter). Its average processing rate is ~300k messages per 50 seconds (including detoxifying) while only consuming about 1gb of memory.

## Usage
#### **With DiscordChatExporter:**
This script uses data from [DiscordChatExporter](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/DiscordChatExporter) with a few important alterations (details in their [wiki](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/DiscordChatExporter/wiki/GUI%2C-CLI-and-Formats-explained#export-)):
- Timestamp format is in `yyyy-mm-dd`
- (Recommended but optional) splitting the files into partitions of N messages.

You can alter and copy this command for ease of use with the CLI version:
```
dotnet DiscordChatExporter.Cli.dll export \
  -t [token] \
  -f json -p 300000 \
  --dateformat yyy-mm-dd \
  -o [output dir] \
  -c [channel id to export]
```
#### **With custom data:**
You may use custom data, formatted properly, to use this script. Your input json files should be formatted as follows:
```
{
  "messages": [
    {
      "id": "12345678910111213",
      "type": "Default",
      "timestamp": "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS+00:00",
      "content": "this where the text goes",
      "author": {
        "id": "31211101987654321",
        "name": "Jake",
        "isBot": false,
      },
    },
  ]
}
```
### Benchmarking the script
Regex, parsing, and classification performance can vary from device to device. See the [README in src](./src/src) tested on a GCP e2-highcpu-4 machine.

If you would like to run the benchmark, you can use the <a href="./data\Test [116101115116116120].json">provided json</a> and run:
```
python3 src/workers.py
```
### Running the script
All functionality of this repo can be accessed with [clean.py](./clean.py).

My super large [discord dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/jef1056/discord-data) with over *300 million messages* was cleaned using the command on a 4-core machine with 4gb of memory, in approximately 6 hours.
```
python3 clean.py -detox -workers 8 -dir ../data -out ../cleaned
```

## How is it done?
The process of cleaning the data includes removing a lot of the issues that can be found in discord chat logs, including:
> Please add a pull request or an issue if you can think of any other cases this script should cover!
- Translating "special" unicode-based characters into the english alphabet (text like `T҉o҉X҉i҉C҉` to `ToXiC`)
- Converting excessive spaces and unicode spaces to traditional spaces (text like `hi  		, you!` to `hi, you`)
- Replace users who left the the server(s) without being properly cached (they show up as `Deleted User`) with a random [name](./src/names.txt) that is attached to their id (names like `@Deleted User` to `@Jake`)
- Fixing excessive punctuation or spelling with certain limits (to keep ellipsis, for example) (text like `REEEEEEEEEEEEEEE..........` to `REEE...`)
- Filtering non-ascii characters and commonly used characters for ascii/unicode art (but keeping enough to make the vast majority of messages look ok) (text like `🖊️i like to write <🖊️>` to `i like to write`)
- Converting [supported emojis](./src/emojis.json) to their shorthand form (`😂` to `:joy:`,)
- Removing multiline code blocks while only removing the ticks around the single line code blocks (removing text like <code>`</code><code>``text```</code>)
- Replacing newlines with an escaped newline (`hi\nhow are you?` to `hi\\nhow are you?`)
- Merging multi-message, single-author continutous messages into a single message merged with escaped newlines
- Removing URLs (like `https://jadeai.ml`)
- Removing emails (like `contact@j-fan.ml`)
- Removing phone numbers (like `+1 (123) 456-7890`)
- Removing custom emojis (like `:pogchamp:`)
- Removing toxic messages (like `f*** you`) *note: example is censored

Doing this for a lot of data (millions of messages) is extremely difficult to do, and this repo employs a lot of optimizations. If you're a developer and would like to benchmark the functionality of the scripts, you can run the script in [src/workers.py](./src/workers.py), which contains benchmarking tools. See the [README in src](./src/src) for my benchmark results.